# CS340

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

In order to write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable I attempt to follow the best practices of object oriented programming, along with additional practices of "never nesting" and structuring code to not require comments. (CodeAesthetic "Why You Shouldn't Nest Your Code" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CFRhGnuXG-4 and "Don't Write Comments" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bf7vDBBOBUA). When working on my CRUD Python module from Project One, I used naming conventions for my CRUD commands that let those looking at the code to understand the expected function.  Also, with the Update and Delete portions of the CRUD module I broke both down to two seperate functions each.  These two functions covered updating/deleting one record and updating/deleting multiple records. 
    
How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist, I approach a problem by breaking it down into its requirements and expected outcomes.  With the database and dashboard requirements that were requested by Grazioso Salvare I used the documentation provided to structure both the CRUD Python module and the dashboard.  The CRUD module required the ability to connect to a database, pass a Username and Password to the database, and also required the ability to Create/Read/Update/Delete items in the database.  The dashboard required predetermined search filters, displayed output of the search, a map showing the location of a selected animal from the list, and a breakdown of breeds under each search condition. The dashboard also needed to use the CRUD module to integrate with the database.  Once these aspects were identified I used both Plotly's Dash and MongoDB's documentation to find the correct means to implement those requirements.

This method does not differ from previous assignments in other courses.  I have found that this method has helped me to building solutions to problems I've come across.  I would continue to use this course of action in the future to create databases to meet other client requests.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer Scientists attempt to solve complex problems by developing software that is capable of doing so.  This matters for the same reason why this type of project can help a company, it can increase efficiency, reduce errors, and save both time and money.  Having software that can crossreference data in a large CSV file, like the one used by Grazioso Salvare and Austin Animal Control, can produce a filtered list of potential candidates faster than a person reading through the list would.  Also, it prevents the possibility that a potential candidate would be omitted or included in error.
